# 🚲 Bluebikes Trips Analysis Dashboard 🚲

Want to know where people travel using Boston's Bluebikes? See how many trips are taken
each month, which stations are most popular, where riders travel to and how long they ride for on average.

# Getting Started
## Installing Dependencies and Packages
### With poetry
This project uses [poetry](https://python-poetry.org) for development and dependency management. Poetry can be installed with [`pipx install poetry`], or see [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/) or [pipx](https://github.com/pypa/pipx) documentation for more information.

Poetry manages virtual environments for you, so to install the development environment, including dependencies for testing, run `poetry install --all-extras`. To check that the installation worked successfully, run `poetry run pytest` to run unit tests.


### Without poetry
Instead of using poetry, you can use the virtual environment of your choosing and install with `pip`.
You will need to install the package in developer mode using the `-e` flag.
This will enable you to develop against the pipeline locally.

To use venv as your development environment, you can install the package as follows, then download the data:

```commandline
python -m venv bbenv
source bbenv/bin/activate
pip install -e .[dev,test]
```

## Run the application
In `config.json`, update the path to a SQLite database storing Bluebikes trip data
as generated by the [bluebikes-importer](https://github.com/ginic/bluebikes-importer).

Then, run the application with `poetry run python app.py`.
You can also run the app in a debug mode with `poetry run python app.py debug` so that code changes are automatically reflected in the app.